I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm in Holy Trinity Church, Fandedno, and I'm talking to Lance
Jones who is going to tell us about his father's involvement in building the Mulberry Harbour.
Thank you, Lance.
Hi. In fact, it was my grandfather, my Tide, who was the guy involved. His name was Charles
Price Williams, originally of Shridlan, and then was living in Abigail with my nine, his
wife at the time. He was born in 1907, so he was actually too old to fight in the Second
World War, but as a blacksmith, he had a valued occupation. And so having built landing craft
and helped repair bombed out places like in Birmingham and in London and so forth, he
was then brought on to help build the Mulberry Harbours and the structures related to Mulberry
Harbours at Conwy. Still living at home, whereas he previously lived in compounds and accommodation
when he'd been working in Birmingham and Glasgow and so forth. In Conwy, he was helping to
build the Mulberry Harbours near Quimham and for the Mulberry Harbours. So he was very
proud of what he did, and I know he felt somewhat, he felt the fact that he was too old to fight
and others that he knew were going to fight, but in his way, he was doing the bit that
he could, and he was proud of what he did do.
So he didn't live in the, because many of them were in the old convalescent homes in
Tuganoa and around, but apparently he traveled in every day by train, presumably.
Yeah, I believe that, I mean, I know that he was based from home, he never talked about
having lived away, and of course, there's a train station in Naba Gala and there's the
train station at Llandudno Junction. So he never talked about living away, so I just
always suppose.
He may have walked actually from Llandudno Junction to the Mulberry, it wouldn't have
been that far to go on over Telford's Bridge. So did he know what he was building? They'll
say they didn't.
Yeah, well, he always talked about it, sort of very much in the past tense, and I think
it was only at the end of what they'd done, they realized that they were building these
Mulberry harbors. They were just, you know, structures of steel, weren't they, that they
were making, but for what he didn't know, I don't think.
And you don't know which year he started, because I wondered whether he had been building
on Joris Hughes's original Hippo and Crocs, or whether he actually built the three pierheads.
So I don't know. I don't know what year he started in Conway on the Mulberry Harbour,
so what I do know is that he pretty much worked right the way through from 1940, doing war-related
work and being taken from one place to another place to help rebuild and construct, if you
like.
I'm very proud of his war work, because he was an older man, and he'd given his time
and his older years to construct something that was very important in the war and all
the other things that he did.
And my Tide was a great storyteller, so he always had a story to tell about everything
that he'd done. I think, unfortunately, because I moved away to go to university, I used to
see him every morning because I was his paperboy. So every morning I'd have 20 minutes with
Tide and we'd have a cup of tea and so forth. When I moved away, he was still there, and
I asked him, rather than actually lose the story so I don't hear the stories and so forth,
I gave him a book and a pen to write stories down. But unfortunately, he kind of got through
his early years in the book, so he talked as a child, but he never really wrote his
life as an adult. So that's a bit of a...
A bit of a regret.
So you don't have his wartime...
I don't have his wartime records.
So did he get a medal at the end of that? Any commendation?
No, not that I'm aware of at all.
And yet his war work was really important.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And he survived it and he was cheerful and well afterwards.
Oh yeah, yeah, absolutely. He was fine, absolutely fine. And it's interesting that the family
was on my mother's side of the family. The family after that, they all served, they were
in all of the services. And my father's family are all from Royal Welsh Use of Leers, going
all the way back to the 1700s. And in fact, they have got their medals, particularly from
the First World War in the Regimental Museum in Carnarvon. But that's not tied to us.
Such a lovely story about your time. And I know they did very long hours. It must have
been very tiring because at the end of a long day, he had to get back on, presumably get
on the train and go home. But I'm glad he survived it and put stories about it.
He was a very strong man right the way through into his mid-70s. And he used to proudly
challenge me to an arm wrestle. When I was 18 and playing rugby at school and for the
town, he would challenge me. And I remember in the last years I was 18, he was 74 and
he challenged me to an arm wrestle and I couldn't beat him. And I was a big lad.
I'm so glad. He was so strong even at the end of his life. Such a lovely story. Thank
you so much.
You're welcome.